**Password:** CrystalMommy69

*Click [[Campaign Sessions]] to view a full list of session summaries.*

After witnessing the execution of [[Dzaan]], the party went through a whirlwind of events. [[Imdra]] and [[Danneth]] allow the party to atone for interfering with the execution by searching for Easthaven fishermen lost for several days. When the party does [[Search for Fishermen|find the fishermen]], they've been killed and eaten by a witch named [[Maud]]. Returning to Easthaven to report the news, the group then [[The Truth About Dzaan|tips off authorities]] that Duergar are lurking at the Ferry on the lake. Imdra and the party [[The Ferry|investigate]] and capture three Duergar (Larry, Curly, Moe). From there, is an [[Team Interrogation|interrogation]] that leads information of a superweapon in the works. The party sets off southward from Easthaven to investigate, reaching Good Mead.

Investigations and conversations with the locals of Good Mead convinces the party to look into the [[Smash and Grab Monsters|rumors]] circulating town. The Fox is kind enough to lead the party to the cave where the giant and the ogre are said to dwell. The party sneaks inside and ambushes the [[Ogre Friend|ogre]] while it's asleep, and while the ogre calls for the giant named [[Duhg]] to come to its aid, Duhg ultimately runs away in hopes of living through the encounter. The ogre still lays on the ground, alive for the moment but knocked out by the party.

Niles attempts to chase down Duhg but fails to kill the giant before it escapes the cave. He [[Ending the Giant Threat|returns]] to the party, checks on his injured comrades, calmly walks over to the ogre, and then swiftly executes the creature without warning. Everyone is speechless at this sudden act of violence, with Jaeger seeming especially distraught. The group then spends the rest of their time exploring the premises and learns that a tomb is nearby. Though they do not learn the [[Unknown Hero|identity]] of the entombed hero, Candor leaves with several items for himself. Afterward, they chase down and finish off Duhg before he is out of the area. Returning to town, the party is rewarded by the locals and given free accommodations. Candor finds no rest that night and can’t figure out the cause. The next day the people of Good Mead beg the group to stay and escort them to the cave—to which they unenthusiastically agree. Back at the cave, it takes a team effort of the barbarians, Joyelle, and the townsmen to load the carts with the missing mead. Jaeger investigates the tomb further while keeping watch for bears. Niles stands guard outside and a [[Duhg's Other Friend|new giant]] emerges from the woods after calling to Duhg. Alerting his friends to the presence of another giant and retreating inside, the new foe enters the cave and is immediately killed by the party. Candor also finds a way to break the curse on him placed by the [[Augur's Dagger|dagger]] he picked up. They stay another night in Good Mead.

Waking up early, the party discusses the best path to Sunblight Stronghold before [[Space Aliens|setting out]]. At Dougan’s Hole the streets are empty and silent despite arriving mid-morning. There are walkways connecting buildings, leading the party to assume that the inhabitants are using these paths to travel without stepping out into the cold. On the outskirts of town, the party sees a large hill with stones atop its peak but decide to continue their journey without looking into this new area. While traveling along the river to their destination, smoke and damaged mountains can be seen to the east. They recall the [[Straight Shooting Star|shooting star]] rumor. Nearing what they assume to be the shooting star impact site, the party sees two massive abominations feasting on the body of a Duergar, and not far is a large aquatic-like structure. The party attempts to sneak inside unnoticed but alert the three smaller tentacled aberrations within, along with the two abominations outside. Jaeger grabs the attention of a colossal chimeric amalgamation of entities native to the North when he illuminates the room. A short fight ensues where not much damage is done. Eventually, a new creature floats down the stairs. The levitating creature speaks in a language only Backbreaker knows, and both briefly share an exchange before Backbreaker relays the contents of the conversation to his peers. The creature, named [[Dredavex]], requests that the party find [[Psi Crystal]] to fuel their ship. Then comes a secondary request to find a way to keep the ship’s residents warm in the meantime. Everyone brainstorms to find an immediate solution, and while several ideas are presented to Dredavex, the creature does not agree to any of them.

## Recap 25
Knowing that time is short, the party understands that they need to continue. Candor resolves to build a bonfire outside the ship as a contingency and manages to cut down several trees and load the pieces onto the sleds. The group decides to sleep outside the ship. In the middle of the night, Candor awakes with a start to the feeling of being grappled. Also entangled in tentacles Bubbles the dog is frightened and frantically barks, waking the rest of the party. They all see that Dredavex’s children are the assailants. Backbreaker succeeds in intimidating two of the three children of Dredavex into getting off Candor. Mori then calls out for the parents, who hear and usher their children back into the ship. 

The next day, after traveling for several hours, the party makes it to the stronghold. The structure is built into the mountain with only a single trail inside via a long path of stairs to a solitary entrance.  Without any perceivable way in, the rest of the party hides while Niles disguises himself as one of the duergar they [[Team Interrogation|captured]]  at the ferry. He calls out to the person inside while appearing as “Moe”, speaking in Undercommon. The door then opens and Niles gestures to the party to stay a few paces behind, promptly encountering a female duergar. After the exchange, Niles enters the hallway and the guy from before peeks from behind a corner to Niles’ right, whispering for “Moe” to follow him. 

Before trailing the male duergar, Niles motions for the party to go to the other door to the left. Joyelle, Backbreaker, and Candor are noticed by the female duergar as they enter the same room as her. She shouts that there are intruders. Although no one comes into the room at that moment, it is assumed that reinforcements are on the way. Backbreaker and Joyelle begin to attack the woman, causing a commotion, while Candor breaks off from the group to go find Niles.

## Recap 26
Combat session ensues with Velys, Niles, Candor, Jaeger, Joyelle, and Backbreaker. The party kills eight enemies, but one escapes past Joyelle after Velys leaves the door open to the hallway. The party knows that one enemy is gone but can’t determine when it escaped, and that their presence is known by the enemies. Out of combat, Niles takes time to update the group on what he learned from the Duergar in the hallway, telling the party of the two factions (loyalists and rebels) and Grandolpha. 

Joyelle finds a secret passage leading to a room sporting a stone table with a map of the Ten Towns, a hand carved chardalyn dragon, and a lever. Jaeger moves to pull the lever, but Niles initially stops him. Jaeger keeps trying to pull the lever, and between Niles and Backbreaker, he’s stopped from activating the device. The lever is not pulled, and the assumption is that everyone will now go to speak with the Duergar referenced in Niles' earlier explanation.