---
title: Letter to Grandfather 2
date: 2023-06-11 16:00:00 +0500
categories: [rotfm, correspondence]
tags: []
description: Letters or missives Niles has written in the past.
---

*Niles outlines what he wishes to include in letters in his journal, helping to paint a picture on what information he has sent during his time in the North. This outline seems to be dated around the time the party left Bryn Shander to find Auril's hideout at the Isle of Solstice (Session 36).*

[I am too lazy to write a letter.]

The letter would have been addressed to Niles' grandfather, Cesar Charron.

Niles starts the letter asking his grandfather to thank someone named Cyrille for always imparting his knowledge from when he was actively travelling the world. Although the Niles of years past despised hearing the brutal tales of his uncle Cyrille, the lessons learned have been useful on this excursion in the North. Examples of when said knowledge was used are listed in the form of knowing how to execute a creature in a means leading to an instantaneous and painless death (such as with the ogre at the cave near Good Mead), having proper technique during interrogations to gather information (such as with the captured Duergar in Easthaven), and being able to read opponents and goad them into making mistakes (such as with luring out Xardorok in the final confrontation).

Niles then goes on to give news and updates to his journey so far:
- Xardorok Sunblight was a warlord who unleashed a dragon made of a material named chardalyn. The construct caused a massive amount of destruction before Niles and his group destroyed the monster and killed the warlord. There is a note of where Xardorok’s stronghold can be found, along with information of what discoveries are within the fortress.
- Grandolpha is a Duergar woman and previously the betrothed of the now deceased Xardorok Sunblight. Based on the way she spoke, Niles suspects that she is motivated by prospective financial gains within the Ten Towns. There is an assumption that this is something worth exploring if such an enterprise is desired. Grandolpha and those who are loyal to her are suspected to still be in Xardorok’s fortress.
- The Arcane Brotherhood are, according to Backbreaker, a group of self-serving wizards that are out to gain knowledge at any cost. Their headquarters is in Waterdeep. This group seems to run on the ethos that alone a single mage cannot do much, but together they can accomplish their goals. However, they have a habit of sabotaging each other. Niles jokes that his pen pal in Waterdeep, Vaya, is part of this group given her fiery nature, ambition, and zeal for knowledge of the unknown.
- Avarice is a member of the Arcane Brotherhood, and the Tiefling is in competition with Vellynne Harpell. She seems to have taken over a town called Caer-Dineval with her followers and is holding the town’s leader hostage. Not much else is known about that situation, but Niles admits that this is beyond the scope of what he’s willing to deal with considering the town’s Speaker gave off an air of incompetence during their initial meeting.
- Vellynne Harpell is also a member of the Arcane Brotherhood. Niles mentions that her wealth is her preferred manner of negotiation, paying or making deals using financial compensation being the go-to method. However, Niles admits that she aided him and his group in catching and defeating the chardalyn dragon using the speed of her undead dogsleds. As such, Niles has agreed to pay her back for this favor. As such, the next thing on Niles’ agenda is getting her an item called the Codicil of White, which is said to exist in the abode of the goddess, Auril. As fantastical as that sounds, this plan is how Niles will pay back his debt to Vellynne for being the main reason the chardalyn dragon was defeated.
- Next comes a brief section detailing the sacrificial lottery and Auril. The description of the sacrificial lottery paints the practice in an accusatory and vicious light, and that everyone who ventures northward is subjected to signing up—including himself. This lottery is tied to the goddess their worship, along with the religion being the driver for multiple murders. Niles doesn’t know what to expect if he and his group finds the Codicil of White, but he knows that the expedition will be challenging if it means stealing from a goddess.
- Niles then speaks on Dredavex, Pleurota, and F'yorl—three creatures he has never heard of existing. Dredavex being from another world, Pleurota a myconid caught by Xardork within Underdark, and F’yorl being a mind flayer that was also caught and enslaved by Xardorok. Niles notes that while none of this information may be beneficial, he still thinks it’s worth sharing. Given that Grandfather Cesar pushed for all his grandchildren to learn Undercommon as a language, Niles figures that the knowledge of Pleurota and F’yorl escaping to somewhere in the Underdark could be useful later.
- Lastly, Niles brings up Jaeger’s weapon of choice: the pistol. The good of this weapon is that it is capable of decent damage output, range, and usability. It seems capable of firing at the same rate that one uses a bow, making it closer to an alternative—if Niles’ assessments are correct. The bad thing about the weapon is that it is loud and can give away a ranged-combatants position, along with the ammunition being unusual. Niles’ verdict is that the pistol is impressive yet extremely disruptive and awkward if used during a covert operation. Niles notes that this type of weapon could have the noise issue remedied by a well-placed Silence spell. Lastly, on the subject of range, Niles suspects that further innovation could easily solve this issue. Overall, such technology could be a worthy investment. The user, Jaeger, will undoubtedly be averse to offering his knowledge to the Charron family given his “Harper allegiance”, but Niles suspects that there must be someone else who may be more agreeable.

Niles decides to close the letter with a formal statement telling that he plans to write again when able—if he remains in the North.