You (Niles) are owed an automatic success on a nat 20 when you would otherwise fail due to an absurdly high and/or impossible dc. This can only be redeemed once.

**Ex:** Niles rolls a nat 20 and has a total of 24 (including his modifier and any bonuses), but the dc is 30 so he still fails because it is impossible for him to pass this check. However, with this agreement, instead of failing Niles succeeds no matter what his modifier and bonuses are *so long as he rolled a nat 20 on that check*.

**Context:** During [[Entering Grymskalle|Session 40]] when [[Niles]] and [[Jaeger]] failed the Acrobatics check to stop themselves from slipping on the ice and sliding down the stairs leading to Ukuma and the four trials, DnD rules were set aside to punish Niles' nat 1 roll with a forced/critical failure. Normally Niles' nat 1 on a dc 5 Acrobatics check would not constitute as a failure since he has a +7 modifier making the total 8--which would pass the check despite the 1 on the die. However, deciding to force a punishment where none should have existed, the dm made the nat 1 an automatic failure and ignored the 8 total for the Acrobatics check. Rules as written dictates that a nat 1 is not an automatic failure since bonuses and modifiers are taken into account, meaning that if someone rolls very low on the dice, so long as their bonuses and modifiers are enough to push them over the threshold for the DC that character would normally still succeed on that roll. DM explicitly stated that bending the rules was for his entertainment. Therefore, dm ignored the rules and issued a critical failure to a player for his own enjoyment, and after a brief discussion dm has agreed that one instance of a critical success is owed to the player out of fairness. Since an absolute failure was forced where success would have normally occurred, then an absolute success will be forced when a failure would normally occur. All of this is under the condition that a natural 20 has been rolled and the existing modifiers and bonuses don't pass the dc.

**Summary:** Niles rolled a nat 1 for a dc 5 check and despite him technically succeeding with his +7 modifier using the rules as written, the dm chose to bend the rules for the sake of punishment/entertainment to automatically fail Niles' successful save. Therefore, the dm has promised that at a time when Niles (or any future character *you* are playing until this agreement is fulfilled) rolls a nat 20 on a check and would normally fail due to an impossibly high dc, Niles or said future character can instead receive an automatic success where none would be theoretically possible so long as that character rolled a nat 20 for that particular skill check. Think divine intervention.

**Note:** This cannot be redeemed in combat, only for a future skill check. And the skill check cannot be for an absurd action like moving mountains or lassoing the moon.

*Conversation with Robert on a future Automatic Success took place on December 25th, 2023 during a discord voice call, so no written confirmation will be found. Thus the extensive notes.*